So let's take that a step further.
Let's do the same thing for our books.
And so I'm gonna actually just
You can do a lot of this just
really quickly like that.
And just double check that I don't
need to change any of these.
Nope, those should all be good.
So, we've got ourselves books now.
Going in the same way
that our authors did.
So let's Save, Stop and Restart.
We now see that we also have book.
So if I go in I can query the ID ISBN.
Let's get the name Author.
I am missing my series info
which is a little bit odd.
There's no book slug is why.
That's what I get for copy pasting.
Let's try this one more time.
She's okay.
So let's try that again.
And now there's there it is.
There's our series in series order and
we get all of our books.
So here's each of the books.
And we can see down here that
the series order went No.
All right, so e now have custom
data inside of our Gatsby layer.
But there's a problem here, which is that
for my author, I'm getting this, but
what if I wanna be able to
display the author's name, right?
I would like to be able
to dig into that and
get the author name, and
so in order to do that,
we're gonna have to create
relationships between these nodes.
So, let's first, talk about how
this will actually function.
So if you imagine your data
as being login a REST API,
what you get is your kind of
specifying what's called foreign keys.
If you've know anything
about data normalization,
then that you may have
heard of that term before.
If you haven't, don't worry about it.
It basically means In both objects,
there's something that matches.
So if we look at our author and
get the nodes, so
here we go the name and the slug.
I stopped there.
Okay, instead of starting that again,
I'm just going to go over here, and
we're going to look at the authors.
So the authors have a slug.
And this value here matches
the value of author Here, right so
these slugs are a unique identifier for
each author that can be used.
This is what's called the foreign key.
So this is our foreign key
relationship with the author data.
So to create one of these in Gatsby,
we're going to use what is
called the Create types.
API, and
if you are running gatsby underneath
graph qL is what's called a schema.
And the schema is what gives us the
ability to like generate these queries out
here the the fact that all this is done,
this is all built off of the schema.
So looking at the query, this is what
the schema looks like under the hood.
So as you can see,
this is pretty intimidating.
There's quite a bit in here.
But we don't need to
care about any of that.
What we need to care about is specifically
the thing we're trying to accomplish.
Which is that we want to add
a relationship between these two types
of data.
So I'm just gonna write a little bit
of GraphQL schema right in here.
And the first thing that we wanna
do is we're gonna touch our author.
Every data type in Gatsby is a node.
So we have to implement
the node interface.
And then Gatsby gives us some convenience
where it doesn't require us to re-declare
every field.
Gatsby does something called Inference
where it will look at the data that comes
in and generate fields based on that data.
Most of the time, this is fine.
Sometimes you'll have to do a little
bit of messing around in here and
that's where this create
types comes in very handy So
what I want to do is I want my author
to have a list of their books,
and I want books to have
access to the author object.
So for each author,
I want to add a field called books and
I want this to be an array
have their books.
And I want this to be required.
So you can either get an empty array,
or you'll get an array of books, but
you can't get an array of No,
and you can't get the value.
No, that's what these
exclamation points here mean.
And I want to link this.
So the way that linking works is
it's gonna say we need to link
from a field and
we need to link by another field.
So I in my from field have
what I want my foreign keys.
So in author my foreign key
is the slug.And in the book,
we're going to put this inside
of the author itself so
the the book object will actually be book,
Dot author dot name.
So when I want to link inside of
the name it's gonna be author dot slug.
So the name and slug will live
inside of the author field on book.
So that's how we link that one, and then
let's do the same thing in reverse for
the book So that one's also gonna
implement the node interface.
And this one gets an author.
We're just gonna override
the author field and
I'm gonna do that by
using the author type.
Then this one link from author which is
the the field that's got the slug in it,
and it's gonna link by
slug on the author type.
So we're basically telling Gatsby,
these are this is what I want to happen.
When I want when I search for authors
to get a books field that has a list or
has information about the books
written by this author.
And then if I'm on the book type, I want
access to information about the author of
those books, and I'll show you
why this is cool in a second.
That's all we have to do.
So why don't we start it and I'll show
you what's cool about it right now?
So, when we're allowing for
our books to have authors, and
our authors to have books,we
could reverse this, right?
Like we could just go deeper,
and deeper, and deeper.
And then yeah, actually,
it's kind of cool.
It's a cool way to be able to
do that sort of development.
So, now that we've got this set up,
if I'm looking at my author here,
and I pull up in books,
I can now find the name and
ISBN of every book they written.
Let me get the book out for a second so
we can see this more easily.
So here's our author query,
and we've got nk jemisin.
And here are all the books in
this database by NK Jemisin.
That is pretty dang cool, right?
But let's go the other way on this.
And so now I'm gonna say I want
to look at all my books, and
for my books, I want the author
to pull out their name, but
then I also wanna pull
out their other books.
So I'm gonna pull out all the books
that they've written with the IESPN.
So we can get, here's the fifth
season it was written by Rik Jemisin.
And here are all the other
books by NK Jemisin.
So this is so much easier than having to
write a series of nested rest calls and
doing the async await dance
of making sure all those
promises have resolved before I move on.
This felt like a game changer to me this
is when I finally went, I get why graph qL
matters, because I spent a long time
looking at it going, I don't know.
It just feels like complicated rest,
right?
This is why it matters, this convenience,
this ability to say, hey,
as a front end developer, you don't need
to string together tons of HTTP calls.
You can say what you want.
And GraphQL will abstract away all
the complexity of linking up that data.
So this is the real power
of how this stuff works.